[CLOCK TICKING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium
James Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE]
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hi, everyone.
Hi!
Yeah!
Thank you.
Thank you very much
for joining me,
and thank you at home
for joining me, also,
for "Spirit Talk," where I take
you one step closer to heaven.
So on today's show,
a very special show,
we've had a lot of people
just wondering about one
of our previous guests, and
I wanted to bring her back.
So today is all about love
and how you can attract love
into your life using what's
called numerology, another tool
to get to truth.
So we're very blessed to have a
special guest and a good friend
of mine with us today.
Please help me welcome
Glynis McCants.
Glynis.
[APPLAUSE]
Can I help you up here?
>>GLYNIS MCCANTS: Up here, yes.
Hello.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Have
a seat, darling.
>>MCCANTS: Thank you.
Hi, everyone.
>>AUDIENCE: Hello.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now we did a
show with you a while ago,
and it went really well.
And you have so much
information and so much wisdom.
And you threw things at us.
And a lot of people want
to know a little bit more
about the tool of numerology.
So let's get started
with that first.
What is numerology?
>>MCCANTS: It sounds
like I'm abusive.
You said, you
threw things at us.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
that's our other life.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, couple
lawsuits on that one.
I'll tell you what this is.
Numerology is the
science of numbers.
It's 2,500 years
old, and Pythagoras
is the creator of the
system that I use.
The belief is that
everything in the universe
has vibration,
especially people.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
everything in the universe
is measured by numbers.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, actually.
And also, music, harmonics.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And music,
the tones, the music, color.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, and if
you hear a song you like,
chances are its vibrations
are compatible to you.
If you can't stand
a song, chances
are those numbers are
toxic, just like people.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow, that's great.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, when you
meet people, you're like, ooh,
I like you.
Or you meet someone and
you say, you just drain me.
I'm not feeling good about you.
So that's what I teach.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Raymond on Facebook
asked me this question to ask
you, so I got to ask you this.
Is there any correlation
between biblical numbers
and numerology, like verse 22.2?
>>MCCANTS: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So tell
us a little about that.
>>MCCANTS: Well,
OK, let's say you
talk about the seventh sign.
The number seven
is God's energy.
That's God's number.
And when we look at
this audience today,
we'll teach maybe
those life paths
so everyone knows what they are.
But the number
seven-- when you think
of the seventh sign, the seven
seas, all the spiritual times
seven comes up, it's
about test of faith.
And that's true in
numerology as well.
And when you talk about
40-- 40 lashings, you know,
punishment-- fours
learn the hard way.
So to me, it's very
connected to the Bible.
I'd love to do the
God-numerology connection
to talk about vibration.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think
your next book should
be about numerology
and the Bible.
>>MCCANTS: It will be.
Because I-- the problem
for me-- especially,
you know my work
forever now, but I'm
very spiritual about it.
Numerology is a tool to
help you with your life.
It does not replace God.
And people who panic, they're
like, ooh, it's the occult.
You know, they want to
do that, and I'm like,
are you kidding me?
It's about being alive and being
happy and treating yourself
better and the people
in your life better.
How can that be bad?
>>VAN PRAAGH: And it's just
having another insight, a tool,
like meditation is a tool.
>>MCCANTS: But when you have
someone's number-- honestly,
this does go back to no
such thing as a stranger
if you've got their number.
And they can run,
but they can't hide.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
everybody has a number.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so how did
you get involved in this?
I just want to ask
quickly, for those
who don't know, how did you
get involved, in all things,
in numerology?
>>MCCANTS: Well, my
heart was broken,
and it was my first love.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In love, OK.
>>MCCANTS: Raised Catholic,
so that first love is sacred,
and I thought we'd
go the distance.
And I went to see
a numerologist.
They called her a psychic
because it was so accurate,
but she was a numerologist.
And when she explained, she
goes, he's toxic to you,
so you really don't
belong with him.
But the mother and
sister are just like you.
They share the
number three, which
is why, when you
go in that house,
you feel like you belong there.
Well, the minute I found
that out, I was over him.
Two years of crying over
this man, I was over it.
I'm like, oh, that makes sense.
I'm still friends with the
mom and sister to this day.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
for that reason,
you just thought, well,
numerology makes sense to me.
>>MCCANTS: That's when I knew,
when it took me out of pain.
If I'm in agony and I
can get out of pain,
why wouldn't I want the
whole world out of pain.
And let's keep this in mind.
As a three, which is my
number, double three, triple D.
Got to throw it in.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's there.
Might as well.
>>MCCANTS: Boy, are they.
But let me tell you
what that's all about.
For me, three is the
natural comedian.
So I used to do the comedy.
That's what I did for a living.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You were a
stand-up comic for many years.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
And making people
laugh was for a minute.
Making you happy for your
life is for your life.
What I do now is to help
you with your lifetime.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let me interrupt
you by asking you this
because I think its
a good question.
Laughter itself-- because
I laugh a lot here--
is that a certain number?
Laughter?
>>MCCANTS: Well,
I would tell you
that the three is
the natural comedian.
You tend to have a
three in your chart
when you're really
good at funny.
If we look at our
comedians-- even
Joan Rivers is a
good example of this.
Joan was a three,
born on a three day,
which means she
could look funny,
but she was really an eight.
And eights are direct
and can come off as mean.
And if you'll notice a lot
of things that flew out
of her mouth, you're like,
wow, Joan, you're mean.
She's like, it was a joke.
It was a joke.
Well, I'm double three.
So if I go funny,
it stays funny.
But she was good.
And if you go back into her
early career, she was on fire.
She had a different way--
then it became more critical.
The number eight-- and this
is true for any eight here--
you're very judgmental,
judgemental of yourself
and others.
You can't help but
kind of dissect them,
and that's what she
did in her comedy.
Tina Fey has a three.
Rosie O'Donnell has a three.
>>VAN PRAAGH: We'll get into
celebrities in just a moment.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, but
I'm just telling you
that number three tends to
be in successful comedians.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now when
you say that number,
she's a three, that means
the day she was born?
>>MCCANTS: Well, more than that.
When you take a
full date of birth
and reduce it to one digit,
you get your life path number.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so let's
stop with that, life path.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, and
we're going to teach you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Can you
give me my life path?
>>MCCANTS: Of course, but--
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so
we're going to-- everybody
can understand this and
>>MCCANTS: Do we have
a large board, James?
>>VAN PRAAGH: We
have a large board.
So give us five minutes, and
we'll get the large board.
We're going to replace
you with a large board.
>>MCCANTS: I'm
sorry to hear that.
I was replaced by
something flat.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: But full.
Yes.
>>MCCANTS: OK, well,
we'll do that because I
do want to show how to
break down the numbers
so everyone can learn today.
>>VAN PRAAGH: We'll do that now.
>>MCCANTS: OK?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, this
is James back with you.
And we're with
Glynis McCants who's
telling us about-- or teaching
us about numbers, numerology,
and love by the numbers.
And Glynis is going to
help us figure this out.
She gave everybody
a piece of paper
and a pen to write
their numbers out.
Their birth dates, correct?
And I'm going to do that for you
here so we see what's going on.
So that's me, JVP.
That's my initials.
And you want my birth date.
>>MCCANTS: Your full
date of birth, 8/23--
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
8/23/1958.
I'm old.
>>MCCANTS: No, you're not.
You're adorable.
Please.
Adorable doesn't age.
You're the age of fabulous.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, fabulous.
>>MCCANTS: So let's keep going.
Here's what you do.
Now, I want you to
go 8 plus 2 plus 3.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 8.
>>MCCANTS: Plus--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Plus--
>>MCCANTS: 2.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 2.
>>MCCANTS: Plus 3 plus 1.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Plus 1.
>>MCCANTS: Plus 9
>>VAN PRAAGH: I got it.
Yes!
>>MCCANTS: Plus 5 plus 8.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: And then, you're
going to add that all up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No, you're
going to add that up.
I don't do numbers.
>>MCCANTS: No, we'll
do it as a class.
Guys, ready?
>>VAN PRAAGH: I do dead people.
>>MCCANTS: Let's do this, ready?
8 plus 2--
>>VAN PRAAGH: 10.
>>MCCANTS: Plus 3.
>>AUDIENCE: 13.
>>MCCANTS: Plus 1.
>>AUDIENCE: 14.
>>MCCANTS: Plus 9.
>>AUDIENCE: 23.
>>MCCANTS: Plus 5.
>>AUDIENCE: 28.
>>MCCANTS: Plus 8.
>>AUDIENCE: 36.
>>MCCANTS: 36.
Now, put 36 here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, I got it.
>>MCCANTS: And then, 3 plus
6 reduced to one digit is a--
>>AUDIENCE: Nine.
>>MCCANTS: Nine.
Which means James Van
Praagh is an old soul.
He's a nine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
my life path number.
>>MCCANTS: That
is your life path.
It's the most important number.
It is the one who comes through
with a lot of information.
Raise your hand if you're
a nine because you're
going to relate to this.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Where
are my fellow nines?
One, two?
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, fellow
nines, look at them.
And you, raise your hand.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
knew I liked you.
No nines over here?
>>MCCANTS: Nine?
OK, whoever was a nine.
So here's how it goes.
Even as a child, you made
a note of what you liked
and what you didn't like so that
when you grew up, it was like,
I'm going to let that stuff go.
That's your biggie
is letting things
go because when you're
a nine, you keep it all.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's very true.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
And so-- but nine
also means people
assume you know what's going
on even if you have no clue.
You can pull it off.
>>VAN PRAAGH: True.
>>MCCANTS: And you
know what it is?
You don't want to disappoint.
Nine?
You know this.
It's like, OK, I'll do it
because they need my help.
You don't like
letting people down.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
>>MCCANTS: But it is the highest
number in the basic numbers
one through nine.
Nine is the number
of completion.
So it's an old
soul, James, which
makes perfect sense
for you, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>MCCANTS: OK, so that's--
Well, give him a hand, he's a 9.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Somebody asked,
do nines get along with nines?
>>MCCANTS: Of course.
There's respect.
You have an instant respect.
There are numbers that
are called natural match.
You can put those
down if you'd like,
just because they're simple.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, hold on.
>>MCCANTS: They're
really simple.
I'm going to just give
you three categories.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So life path
is really important to know.
>>MCCANTS: It's huge.
It's your life purpose.
If you don't fulfill
that life path number,
you're not going
to be that happy.
You're going to feel like you're
a little behind what you want.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
life path-- I'm just
going to write this
down so I remember--
life path equals purpose.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, life purpose.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, and then
the next thing we want?
>>MCCANTS: I would say there's
natural match categories.
Because you said, well, does
nine get along with nine?
When you are hanging with
your natural match category,
you tend to like each other.
By the way, I'm a three.
He's a nine.
Hello.
Right here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Gotcha.
>>MCCANTS: So here we go.
Three, six, nine-- you can write
that down as a pack of numbers.
And that's creative.
You could say they're
creative minded.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>MCCANTS: And then two,
four, eight-- business minded.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Business, OK.
>>MCCANTS: And
when you're a two,
it's business with your heart.
So if you have a two, it's
like, I want to make money,
but I want to make
sure my heart's in it,
not just to make money.
But fours and eights,
they need that security.
One, five, seven-- that's
the next and final group.
Those are the mind numbers.
They never stop thinking.
It's the most cerebral numbers.
They've got to find
healthy ways to escape
because the dark
side of one, five,
seven-- escaping
through the alcohol
because they want to drown their
thoughts, but it doesn't work.
No matter how much they drink,
they're still kind of sober.
It's one, five, seven.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So there
are only nine numbers.
>>MCCANTS: Well,
these are the basics.
You also have master numbers,
which people know about.
You could just put
that, master numbers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What
is a master number?
>>MCCANTS: 11--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hold on.
I'm only going to write so much.
Master numbers.
OK, 11.
>>MCCANTS: 11 is one of them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But don't
you go down to one?
>>MCCANTS: Well,
in this case, I'll
explain, but let me
give you-- 11 and 22.
Those are the ones that
are the most well known.
Why?
Because you can
be born the 11th.
You could be born the 22nd.
But another master number,
which is unique to get, is 33.
So you can write that.
And that's it.
But the only way you could get
that is your full date of birth
before it becomes a six.
But I'm going to tell
you what it means.
Raise your hand if you
have a master number that's
obvious in your chart, like
born the 11th, born the 22nd.
Anybody?
You are very sensitive.
And you can be oversensitive.
And you take things to heart.
And it feels like a cut to your
stomach when someone hurts you.
So I say embrace your lower
frequency vibration as well.
That's why I say
11, embrace the two.
22, embrace your four.
33, embrace your six.
Because when you do that, you
feel better about your life.
Otherwise, you always feel
like you're coming up short.
You've got that in you.
When I said James
has double one,
it means what's
next, what's next?
And it's like, wait a second.
Stop and acknowledge
what you've accomplished.
You've done something good.
And then move on.
So that's part of their lesson.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
So life path, purpose.
Now, this show is
about finding love.
Love by the numbers.
So would they have to do the
other person's life path?
Because that's very important,
or how do we do that?
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
When you are looking at
a relationship-- though,
now, this becomes a
little more complicated
because you've done
it with six numbers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Can I erase?
>>MCCANTS: Yes, please.
You've got three numbers
in a name, three numbers
in a birthday, and
those six numbers
give you a numerology
blueprint of who you are.
Then, you're able
to compare your--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wait, wait.
You're going way too fast.
>>MCCANTS: Well, you're
not going to teach this.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Three
numbers in a name.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just
so we understand it.
And three numbers--
>>MCCANTS: In a birthday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In a birthday.
OK.
>>MCCANTS: And those
six numbers give you
a numerology blueprint
of who you are.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, blueprint.
Just so we can understand this.
Now all those people
at home can get this.
Because I am very confused.
OK.
Now, let's say we're
looking for love.
It's a person that's
looking for love,
and they look for love
in all the wrong places.
>>MCCANTS: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And let's
say they're a two.
Let's say their
life path is a two.
>>MCCANTS: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: How are
we going to say to them,
love is out there, and
this is the type of person
you want to find?
>>MCCANTS: Well, it
really is mathematical.
This is where numbers come in.
It's not a game.
Look, I picked my
husband by the numbers.
The book "Love by
the Numbers" was
written because
I went out there.
It was a dating site,
but I said numerologist
looking for a man who's
really got my number.
And my husband Charlie--
you know Charlie.
I've been with him 12 years.
He is my best friend.
But I knew it on paper
before I met him.
So if someone's
just a two life path
and they hook up with
someone who's a five,
I'm instantly concerned
because a five wants freedom,
and a two needs to feel loved.
Fives tend to
travel, and a two's
like, but where are you going?
See how that doesn't work?
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so let
me ask you this question.
If you're meeting somebody for
the first time-- it's a date.
You're just getting
to know them.
You've been on JDate
or Christian Mingle.
And you're just there, and
you're meeting a person.
Is there something you can do,
besides asking them their birth
date, maybe their
name or something,
you can get an idea right
away what number they are?
>>MCCANTS: Well, yes.
And one fun thing
we did last time
we can prove with
this room as well
that if you have
someone's first name,
you have instant insight
because of the first vowel
in their name.
The other thing you could know,
if you learn the basic life
path number, you can
find out automatically--
like in the book it
says what turns them on,
what turns them off.
And you really will know that
without knowing that person.
But if you want to do
the first vowel, just
to show a couple examples.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Sure.
Why don't we do that?
>>MCCANTS: We can do that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And we'll
take the board away.
Is that all right?
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So here we
are with Glynis McCants,
and today, she's teaching us
all about love and the numbers.
And everything in the universe
is measured by numbers.
And everybody has a life purpose
number, life path number.
And Glynis is going to do a few
reads of the audience regarding
their numbers.
So Glynis?
>>MCCANTS: OK, because this
group has done their birth
dates, I'm going to do what
I call "fast food" reads.
So I'm just going to whip
through a couple just
to show that, when
you have their number,
they're no longer a stranger.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you have
ketchup with that? [GROANS]
>>MCCANTS: OK, so let's see.
[LAUGHTER]
Oh, who do I want.
If you desperately want
a read, raise your hand.
Well, my goodness.
She did it first, so go.
Date of birth?
>>AUDIENCE: 5/25/1951.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you stand, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>MCCANTS: So your date
of birth 5/25/1951?
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>MCCANTS: All right.
Your life path number was?
You did it.
What were you?
>>AUDIENCE: One.
>>MCCANTS: A one, exactly.
Now here's why that's funny.
Ones always get up first.
Remember how she was the first?
Look, I say ones make good
singers. (SINGING) Me,
me, me, me.
Me, me, me, me.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, I'm
a voice teacher.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, wow.
>>AUDIENCE: I spent
my 30 years in opera.
>>MCCANTS: You're
on fire, sister.
I love that.
So here's what else I would say.
Your attitude number is
three, which is humor,
like you like to laugh, but
you're also communication.
But because you're born
on a seven day, mystery.
It's like when you
shut down, they
can't get you on the phone.
It's like I need a time out.
I need to be by myself now.
And nature speaks to your soul.
Ocean, mountains,
plants, flowers--
that's when you feel good.
It's like, I just
want to regroup,
and you regroup by yourself.
So you're a very good
teacher because you
don't miss any detail.
Do you?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>MCCANTS: So
that's "fast food."
And I want to do another one
just like that over here.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Yeah, that's great.
>>MCCANTS: Can you stand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: All right, and
what's your first name?
>>AUDIENCE: Catherine.
>>MCCANTS: It's Catherine.
And Catherine, what's
your date of birth?
>>AUDIENCE: 9/14/61.
>>MCCANTS: OK, 9/14/61.
And what was your life
path because you just
learned how to do it?
>>AUDIENCE: Four.
>>MCCANTS: So you're
a four life path.
Now this is interesting.
Because she was born on a five
day, she has a five attitude.
That means people
don't know you.
People think they know
you, but they don't really.
How often do you feel
a little misunderstood?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
that's-- I agree.
>>MCCANTS: English works for
me, or any language, but--
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Yes.
>>MCCANTS: Anyway--
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm telling y'all.
I warned you.
>>MCCANTS: But let me
tell you why I know that.
And by the way, what's funny
about this little person,
I was at the hotel.
She was like, oh my
gosh, I know your work.
I said, please come down.
So here she is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
you're the lady.
OK.
>>MCCANTS: And then, you
picked her, which is gorgeous.
But five means
celebrator of life,
natural detective,
digging for truth.
You love that.
But behind it is your four, and
your four's afraid of failing.
If I can't do it perfectly,
I don't want to do it.
So good ideas can live
and die in your head.
How often does that happen?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, that's true.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All the time?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>MCCANTS: And it's frustrating.
So what I would say is
you got to learn to say,
you know what, put on
my Nikes and just do it.
Stop over-thinking
because life's too short.
It's not a dress rehearsal.
It's now.
But your five also tells me--
>>VAN PRAAGH: I just
got the Nikes thing.
Just do it, got it.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: With
those fives, it also
means, even if you wanted life
to be calm and cool, it's not.
It's always a drama.
You're always up against it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I agree.
Can I just interrupt
for a second?
Sorry.
>>MCCANTS: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I just look
around your auric field,
and it looks like drama,
drama, drama all around you.
There's got to be
something going on.
Even though you'll say to
me, I don't make that happen.
But there's drama
all around you.
And it's almost
like, I know that I'm
living life if there's
drama going on.
Something has to be happening.
There's always got
to be stimulation
around you for some reason.
>>MCCANTS: Never a dull moment.
>>AUDIENCE: Never a dull moment.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>MCCANTS: But she is
a human Christmas tree,
if you look at that little face.
She gets very excited.
Look at her.
Look at the smile.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're a healer.
>>MCCANTS: Right,
and very giving.
It's easier for you
to give than receive.
Not as comfortable receiving.
And one more thing, all
fours-- raise your hand
if you're a four, besides her.
Keep your hand up
if this rings true.
The deal breaker
for you is a liar.
If someone's dishonest, you
don't want them in your life
anymore.
Raise your hand.
Thank you, all fours.
Stay up.
Because you are about truth.
And you walk in truth.
So you're like, just tell me
the truth, even if it's bad.
Just tell me.
But if you find out behind your
back, you don't get over it.
So you got to let those people
go instead of torture them
and say, remember when
you-- don't do that.
It's better to let
them go if you can.
That's the four.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who doesn't
have love in their life?
They're really searching
for a mate, a partner?
Is anybody here looking
for some person?
>>MCCANTS: Be honest.
Hands up high.
That messes you up.
It really does.
And I want to say,
"Love by the Numbers"
was set up not
just for love love,
like, oh, I got to
have my partner.
It's about learning
to get along better
with the people in your
life so that you feel better
about love.
You know?
And even-- I talk
about naming your pet--
you can have a pet that you
love, but it's a psycho.
And that's the name.
[LAUGHTER]
The name.
Let's talk about that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm going
to share with them.
It's all very much
numbers because last night
in the hotel--
>>MCCANTS: Yes, so good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I asked
Glynis about this.
My room was 257 or
something, and she said,
that's not good for you.
>>MCCANTS: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She said, the
night before, did you sleep?
And I said, I couldn't get
to sleep the night before.
I could not get to sleep.
I'm tossing and turning.
>>MCCANTS: That's right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
said, what's that about?
And you said--
>>MCCANTS: I said,
that room is a five.
There's no way you can sleep.
That's a room
where people party.
A drug addict would be happy.
And I will say apartment
complexes often have the five.
So I told him-- I gave
him numbers to alter it.
Because in my book, I say
how do you alter the energy?
I said put a six on
the inside of the door
to make it into
the energy of two.
I said put a two between your
mattress because he's a healer,
and two's the healing
number, so you can sleep.
And you?
>>VAN PRAAGH: I did.
I slept great.
I put a six next to
the door on the inside
and I put a two next to me
in the bed and slept great.
>>MCCANTS: And
slept like a baby.
Isn't that neat?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>MCCANTS: Who has
a love relationship
and wants to know if you're
soul mates with your partner?
Anybody?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, yes.
>>MCCANTS: How about that?
>>VAN PRAAGH: If you're soul
mates with your partner.
>>MCCANTS: Right here.
This gal's interested.
To keep it simple, let's just
do your full date of birth.
What is yours?
>>AUDIENCE: 7/14/1964.
>>MCCANTS: OK, and
then your partner?
>>AUDIENCE: 11/27/1965.
>>MCCANTS: OK, so this fun.
Now, again, what I'm
doing, I'm doing--
the three numbers
in your birth date
is sacred because
you can't change it.
You can always change your name.
Right?
So if your name's not
terrific with your partner,
you can alter it
to make it better.
But we're going to go with
just why they're good together
and what makes it fun for you.
How many years now?
>>AUDIENCE: 27.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow.
>>MCCANTS: No, but
here's what's funny.
Tell me.
Be honest.
Haven't there been
times you're like,
wow, do I want to do this?
This seems a bit much.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>MCCANTS: They never leave.
I swear.
[LAUGHTER]
I refer to it as--
got your five.
You're double five
like my friend.
And she'll say, you know,
I think I'm leaving.
I said, how many years?
47.
I'm like, would you just stop?
You're not leaving.
But a five needs to know they
can leave if they want to.
Now what's fun is he's
also a five, just like you.
So it means you guys are
going 150 miles a minute.
And someone needs
to check the brakes,
because otherwise you
can hit that wall.
And that's what you've done.
You've hit the
wall many and then
just made it through again.
The other thing I see--
you're a natural counselor.
So what's his first name?
>>AUDIENCE: Sean.
>>MCCANTS: Sean is your patient.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, wow.
>>MCCANTS: You know?
You've ended up counseling
Sean, working through Sean,
helping Sean with his stuff.
And Sean, chances are,
has issues from his family
originally as a
kid-- mom and dad.
What do you know about
that original family?
>>AUDIENCE: What do you mean?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does
he have issues?
>>MCCANTS: What were they like?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, I don't
want to say in case--
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, you do.
They were horrible.
But thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't mince words.
>>MCCANTS: What I'm
saying is-- first of all,
no one-- they're
not watching Gaiam.
And I say that with love.
The chances of them
coming across-- no.
What I'm saying to
you is, with the nine,
they have old
issues from family.
And they don't let it go.
You did.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: You're born on
a five day, five life path.
What you see is what you get.
He gets moody.
He's almost-- duality
in his personality.
He sometimes feels
schizo, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: It's like
who are you now?
Do you see?
Whiplash in agreement?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: But
that's what it is.
But I'ms saying I see why
you've gone the distance,
but you've got to stop
rescuing as much as you do.
Sometimes, let's
let him figure out.
And focus on other
things because when
it comes to our partner, if
we study them too closely,
no one looks good
under the microscope.
>>VAN PRAAGH: True.
>>MCCANTS: No.
And you do that.
You dissect him,
and it ain't pretty.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: So we're
going to give her your book.
So we're going to give
you "Love by the Numbers."
>>MCCANTS: Yay,
you get the book.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>MCCANTS: Look at you, and
you're going to like the read.
You're going to like what
you see about you guys.
>>AUDIENCE: All
right, thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, sweetheart.
Before we go, I want
to readings here
because I know there
are dead people wanting
to speak to people here.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
they come from love.
And they are love.
And your love brings
them in as well.
And I know it's all tools to
find that love of self and love
in each other.
Since you're here,
I've got to ask you
about certain celebrities.
>>MCCANTS: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
we all like celebrities.
So some celebrities,
like Beyonce and Jay-Z.
Do we all know who
Beyonce and Jay-Z is?
>>MCCANTS: OK, you hear
about them, and I know--
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
they're married.
>>MCCANTS: They are married.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But
I'm sure there was--
>>MCCANTS: -- which I love.
But I'm going to tell you,
they have a fascinating story.
We burn out.
Like if you love other things--
I'm sure this room's burnt out
on the celebrity stuff because
every time you go online,
it's in your face.
But it's not really their fault.
It's keeping you
distracted by other issues.
Right?
We know politically,
don't look over there.
Look at Beyonce and Jay-Z.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
>>MCCANTS: However, comma,
they are fascinating.
Here's why.
Both were born on a four day,
and both are a five life path.
Four is commitment.
Five wants freedom.
They dated six years
before they got married.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Interesting.
>>MCCANTS: And then they
tattooed the number four
on their ring finger, and
four's the commitment number.
So they're like, we're
going to go for it.
We're going to try
to make it work.
This couple has
manifested $800 million.
Sorry, that means meant to be.
So yes, the tabloids like to
rip things to shreds, right?
Oh, they're breaking up.
Oh, look, he's--
I'm like, I can't.
Jennifer Aniston's had how many
babies in the last seven years?
And she's had none.
There's certain
people they go after.
So I would tell you--
>>VAN PRAAGH: How about
Catherine Zeta-Jones
and Michael Douglas.
>>MCCANTS: That's
another good one.
Catherine Zeta-Jones and Michael
Douglas were born the same day.
And when you're
born the same day,
it's an instant connection.
And the minute he
met her, he says,
I'm going to have your
babies-- first thing he said.
She's like, get away from me.
[LAUGHTER]
But here they are.
So when they went
through that break up
for a little bit,
the separation,
I knew it wasn't going to end.
Because here's what
goes wrong-- and this
is true for everyone
in the room--
if there's drugs or
alcohol involved,
I don't care how good it looks
on paper, it's not healthy.
And remember she was drinking.
She had the bipolar.
He went through throat cancer.
They went through way
too much, and it was just
done for a moment.
But I'm like, they
will come full circle.
And he said, now, it's
mandatory date night.
He goes, I don't want
to lose this woman.
I love her.
And you can see
the sparkle again.
That's numbers.
So I'm really good
at not just saying,
oh, they belong together or
they shouldn't be together,
but I can see where
it could come back,
the potential of
what it could be.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you think
they will be back together?
>>MCCANTS: They are.
>>VAN PRAAGH: They are.
[LAUGHTER]
Didn't even know that.
>>MCCANTS: James is on
the Starship Enterprise.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
I like it here.
>>MCCANTS: He's not going to
know what's on planet Earth.
He's like, but
where are they now?
But I brought this
to beam me up.
Do you see?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, very nice.
>>MCCANTS: I did that for you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you, Glynis.
Give Glynis a--
>>MCCANTS: Yes, thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Glynis' book,
"Love by the Numbers,"
definitely everybody
should go get that.
And "Glynis Has
Your Number," also.
And she's on the internet.
Very, very well-known and
very, very good at what
she does, obviously.
And if this goes
bad, side, south, she
can always go do comedy.
[LAUGHTER]
We might do a Las Vegas
act together, actually.
We're thinking about it.
>>MCCANTS: Might?
We're doing it right now--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Psychic
and a sidekick.
>>MCCANTS: --in Boulder.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And friends, yes.
[LAUGHTER]
So I just want to, a little
bit, if we could, just
work with the
spirit world who've
been enjoying this
and helpful also.
And everyone that
came here, I hope
you got a lot out of this today
because I know that they did.
And you got to change things
up every once in awhile
and look at yourself in a
different way and perhaps
with different tools
to understand yourself.
I have a lady who
comes very close to me.
And I feel like this lady was
laid out when she passed away.
I know it's a family member.
And I know that
the-- I'm not sure
if it's the daughter in
the audience right here.
But definitely would
have the dress--
it would have been
a certain dress.
And she wanted to make sure
her mother looked very, very
good when she put her in
the wake or laying her out.
I've got to say that.
I'm not sure if it
was a yellowish dress,
but that's what I see here.
And I know that there
had to be nails applied
on my fingernails, fake
nails on my fingernails.
Because it makes your
mom's hands look good.
So I don't know.
Who does that make
sense to anybody here?
No one understands that.
Seriously?
I know you do.
So I might be wrong saying
it's a mother or grandmother.
It might be somebody else,
like a mother-in-law.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Mother-in-law, correct?
OK, would you mind standing?
Thank you.
So you understand
about the lady who
would have been laid out very
nicely when she passed away.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That'd
be a mother-in-law.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I'm also feeling there could be
sparkles around the necklace,
like wearing a nice necklace
or having sparkles around me.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, she
always had beautiful jewelry
and very well dressed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
I just get the feeling
when she comes to me.
I'm getting a feeling
of being very cropped.
She had to be beautifully
put out, turned out.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that you
want to make sure everything
was perfect for her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I got
to tell you that she
wants to thank you
for doing that.
I know there's an
older woman around.
So I don't know if you
have a sister-in-law?
You understand sister-in-law?
So your husband's sister?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now I know that
there'd be a gold wristwatch
because she shows me
a gold wrist watch.
OK?
And it's Longinnes,
L-O-N-G-I-N-N-E-S.
Longinnes wristwatch.
It's a gold metal wristwatch.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, her daughter
has a beautiful watch like I've
never seen before,
a gold one she
was wearing the other
day that was hers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
that's mother's.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So it's L-O-N-G-I-N-N-E-S. And
I see it very, very clearly.
And that's a jewelry line.
Was that the watch line?
Yeah.
So would you find out
about that because she's
talking about that.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I like that a lot.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's talking
to me about her nails now.
And I want to make sure her
nails look very, very pretty.
And you know you
made that-- got it--
you made that statement
about her nails and her hands
have to be a certain way.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand.
And do you know if
she had a brooch on?
She was wearing a brooch or
they put something on her
like a brooch on the body.
>>AUDIENCE: I believe so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she
shows me a brooch here
when she's lying there.
And she said, oh my goodness, I
lost a lot of weight, she said.
>>AUDIENCE: She did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: As she
looked at the body,
she goes, oh my goodness,
I lost a lot of weight.
She's very funny
because this is just--
>>AUDIENCE: She is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I love her
energy, her sense of humor.
She's looking down at that
casket, being laid out.
And she goes, well, I
wouldn't wish this on anybody.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, my god.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she said, I
wouldn't wish that on anybody.
They put perfume on me.
They stunk it up with perfume.
And she has beautiful perfume.
This lady had perfume
from the south of France.
She had perfume from everywhere.
I bought perfume in New
York City, she said.
And I'm going to tell you
it was on Park Avenue.
She loved Park Avenue.
She just loves it.
And who is Michael?
>>AUDIENCE: It's her oldest son.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does
he involve himself
with her goods, what she
left behind in the world?
>>AUDIENCE: He's the
executor, I believe.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
And I know that something
was changed as far as where
the-- either where was laid
to rest, where she was going
to be laid to rest
that changed up.
They made a change in that.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
I know that there
was a change from what it
originally was going to be.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, thank you.
She's talking about that.
I know that she used
to wear a fox stole.
[GASPS]
She said a fox stole.
Do you remember the fox stole?
>>AUDIENCE: Her store is
called The Silver Fox.
Everyone called
her the silver fox,
and she had a beautiful
silver fox fur.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, that's what
I see, very much right here.
Very much here.
And that's her story.
That's who she is.
That does describe
her beautifully
because it's a
regal part of her.
I like the little hair thing
on here, this little hair thing
here, the net thing or hair
thing I'm seeing with her.
>>AUDIENCE: She always
had her hair done.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Manicure.
Everything is impeccable.
She'd go to finishing
school, this lady.
She really could.
Finishing school all the way.
I like the way she handwrites.
She has stuff in handwriting.
She wrote you a card.
She said, you have a card of
mine with my handwriting on it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
know about that.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
She'd always write cards.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
always liked cards.
She never forgot a birthday.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She never
forgot a birthday.
She never forgot an anniversary.
She was right there.
She'd be the first
card to get it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She spent
a lot of time and effort.
Everything she did,
time and effort.
She cared.
She had a mindfulness
about every little action
that she made.
And I want to tell you
that many of her things--
she wants to thank you
for respecting her things.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
likes her shoes.
She has the best shoes.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know that.
And I want to-- if you could--
I think things are still
a little bit in a
flux in the family
with her passing
and her materials.
You understand that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she
says things are in flux.
And I know that I want you to
please, please, she said, would
you take care of my things and
give them to people who really
appreciate them, not
just throw them out.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you'll
smell her perfume,
and that's her sign to you.
She loves you very much.
Thank you for helping.
God bless.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so
you lost your dad, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
mind standing up, please?
>>AUDIENCE: No, not at all.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: It's Clifton.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm
going to tell you
that when I bring
this man close to me,
he wants me to tell you that
he's happy that you're here.
And I'm going to tell
you that he got you here.
And I know that you were
not going to come here,
but he got you here.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know you
weren't-- there was a time--
and I know this-- you
were going to leave,
but you had to come back.
And there was something
that drove you
in your mind that said,
I got to come back.
Maybe my dad's going
to come through.
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
I got to tell you
that Dad is coming through
now, and Dad's coming through
for you.
Also, I've got to talk
about someone drinking.
So I don't know why,
but I want to talk
about someone
drinking in the family
that he would know, your dad.
OK?
Is there a drinker
in your family
that your father would know of?
>>AUDIENCE: You know,
alcoholism really
isn't an issue in our family.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are
you guys married?
>>AUDIENCE: No,
this is my sister.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
that's your sister.
This is your dad, too.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, stand up.
[LAUGHTER]
Hello.
Oh, here we go.
Look at this.
We're getting the whole thing.
OK, so do you know of
someone who'd be an alcoholic
or who died an
alcoholic in the family?
>>AUDIENCE: Our grandparents
were alcoholics.
>>AUDIENCE: His
parents, specifically.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, his parents.
There are two more siblings
you have, stepsiblings?
Two more.
>>AUDIENCE: Right?
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
he would know of?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>AUDIENCE: He would
know of them, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
I'm just going to give
you some information.
He's very much involved
in everybody's lives.
I'm going to say that to you.
And your mother's still
living on the earth here?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, great.
I want to talk about something
he's involved himself in,
and he can't breathe.
Before he passes over,
he can't breathe.
I've got to tell you that.
So I don't know if
he was given oxygen
at one point toward
the end of his life
or he had to have
help with breathing.
Would you know about that?
>>AUDIENCE: He was in a canyon.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
was in a canyon.
>>AUDIENCE: In Utah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did they go find
him or paramedics go after him?
>>AUDIENCE: They
were looking for him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Do you know if they put an
oxygen mask on him, because he
said they did.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm sure they did.
>>AUDIENCE: It'd be likely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And didn't
he get in the newspapers?
Was his death in the newspapers?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did he go hiking?
>>AUDIENCE: Backpacking.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Backpacking, great.
And did he go by myself?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, do you know if
there were two other people who
were going to go with
him, but they decided
not to at the last--
and/or changed their minds?
>>AUDIENCE: That
could've happened.
>>AUDIENCE: It's likely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You'll
have to find out.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, it's typical.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
don't know who Bill is.
He's mentioning the
name Bill to me.
Someone named Bill or
William, Bill, Billy.
>>AUDIENCE: Bill is--
>>AUDIENCE: One of
his best friends.
>>AUDIENCE: Bill Wilson is
one of his best friends.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Bill, hello.
Check with Bill, hello.
One of his best friends.
So he was going to go
with him, whether there
was talk about it, or
he mentioned it to Bill.
Now, I know that the family or
someone's looking at the map
and looking at all
different maps.
You understand?
And looking at the trail maps.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know they're drawing
the trails, which way
would he have gone,
and this sort of thing.
I know it's red marker
that I'm seeing.
And that's the red marker
that I'm seeing the trails.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Now if I was to go
right down to your car
and if I was to go in
the glove compartment,
wouldn't I find
some kind of a map?
>>AUDIENCE: Any of my
vehicles have maps in them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In many
of your vehicles.
OK, good.
Well, I know that your
dad is talking to me
about if I went into
your glove compartment,
there'd be a map there.
OK?
I know that you think of your
dad in the car all the time.
OK?
And I know that there's
something about him
in their car that you
have to remind you of him
>>AUDIENCE: My backpack.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
your backpack.
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>AUDIENCE: It's his car.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, it's his car.
It's your dad's car?
>>AUDIENCE: I have
one of his cars.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, I
don't know about that.
Let's get more specific here
because I don't like that.
I want him to tell me more.
>>AUDIENCE: I
carry his backpack.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want
him to tell me more.
Do you like the lake?
Did you like the lake?
Did he like to go to the
lake sometime, your father?
Did he ever go near a lake?
Do you know anything
about a lake
when you were younger,
going to a lake?
>>AUDIENCE: He lived
next to a lake.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
lived next to a lake.
Thank you very much.
Did you ever have a knife
that belonged to your Dad?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Lots of them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Like a little
red knife or something
that-- a pocket knife.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's
telling me you have that.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Why am I going
to go to the water with you?
But I don't want
to go to the water.
I don't know why.
I don't know if you
want to go scuba diving.
want to go snorkeling.
I don't know if you've thought
about doing that, or just
getting certified in that.
Have you thought
about going to Mexico?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm going to Mexico.
>>AUDIENCE: That's probably her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
going to Mexico.
OK, thank you.
He said Mexico to me.
So you're going to Mexico.
Great.
And it was this talk
about snorkeling or maybe
going to do something like that
down there because you will.
Now, there might be something
about certifying, being
certified as a scuba diver,
or something like that.
He's all about this.
He's going to be with you
on that-- I understand that.
He said he's giving you
that trip to Mexico.
It's from him.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: How
the weird thing
happened, how it all worked out.
It's kind of weird, the dates
that it's going as well.
It's very strange.
It's coming up.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
I'm leaving Friday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
leaving Friday.
Oh, good.
Have a good time.
[LAUGHTER]
Remember us in the cold.
OK, one more thing.
>>AUDIENCE: My husband
and my daughter
are certified scuba divers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, are they?
That's interesting.
But I also got to tell you he
said, going to be certified,
so there's something
coming up for you.
So don't even ask them.
But when you get down there,
I'd say, come on, honey,
maybe you want to be certified.
See if that happens.
Guarantee it will.
I want to say something
to the son, my son.
I want to say something you'll
understand about your father.
And I know you have his hat.
I know you have my hat.
I know you have
pride with that hat.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's a cap
or a hat of his, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, or no?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, thank you.
Thank you.
Just do your part,
that's all I ask.
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know I'm
talking here about campgrounds,
camping, camping out.
I know if I'd come
to you, I have
memories of camping or going
on camp-- a long time ago.
Right?
And you would know
about that, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
And I know that if I
could take that cap
and I smell the
smoke of the fire.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I understand that.
Got it.
And you never thought about
boating, going boating?
Do you ever like to go boating
sometimes or getting a boat?
>>AUDIENCE: Only canoes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
like you in boating.
I like you in boats.
I don't know why, but I
want to see you in boats.
Did you go into canoes
or boats with your dad
when he was alive?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, we used
to canoe quite a bit.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
OK, one more thing
I want to give you--
and I want to thank
you for being here.
Your whole family's
here because of you.
I just want to say one thing
to you and then move on.
I have to say it to you
that you'll know it's him.
He said, my son has the backbone
I've always wanted to have.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
That's the phraseology
I have to use,
my son has the backbone I've
always wanted him to have.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, I'll
leave you with that.
Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to
talk about a lady over here.
It's a mother figure
that comes in here.
And I feel like
this lady couldn't
speak when she was passing
away, or right before she
lost her vocals, verbal person.
I don't know if it was a
stroke, but she couldn't [GASPS]
express herself.
And I feel like I want
to go back here somewhere
with a mother who had
a problem with that.
Was it your mom?
>>AUDIENCE: I think so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Elizabeth.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
mind standing up, Elizabeth?
>>AUDIENCE: Certainly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I understand that.
Go on.
Slow down.
So this lady is very, very
excited to speak finally.
She finally got her voice back.
Did you have a mother that
could not speak at the end?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
And you understand that
this lady was, in a way,
I feel, whether I'm
paralyzed-- I can't move.
>>AUDIENCE: She was in a coma.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't tell me.
>>AUDIENCE: OK, sorry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
She could not move.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, I
want to know that you're
at the bottom of the
bed because she saw you
at the bottom of the bed.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
you're standing
at the bottom of the bed, and
you're looking right at her.
Now I know that your
father is there as well.
So your father must've
been in spirit then.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
as I'm looking
at the bottom of the
bed-- I'm you now
at the bottom of this bed--
my father's over here.
Her husband's right there.
She's right there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's in and
out of the body quite a bit.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
the month of April or May
is very significant here.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, that's
my birthday month.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
that's your birthday.
>>AUDIENCE: And my sister's
birthday month would be April.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah.
I know after I died, you put
up a-- right-- you cheered me.
You cheered me.
>>AUDIENCE: (LAUGHING) Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
understand that?
You cheered me.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know she
wants to thank for that.
Because it's very interesting.
We talked with
Glynis earlier today.
We talked about some people have
to get things right, perfectly
right when they do things.
And you did everything
right for your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know you
put lotion on her skin.
I know you did that.
Do you understand that?
And you really made it
soft, and you really
tried to make it
better than it was.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know you
didn't like my mouth open,
she said.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you actually
made a comment to the nurse,
please don't have her
mouth open like that.
>>AUDIENCE: Well-- yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I know that
she said you wanted
it to be very--
you know, dignity.
And she's all about
dignity, your mother.
Would you know about
your father and mom--
your father's coming in now.
He said everything's all right.
She's OK.
Elizabeth is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Elizabeth.
Isn't there another
Elizabeth over here please?
Is there a grandmother
with that name or is there
an aunt with the name Elizabeth?
>>AUDIENCE: It's a family name.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
a family name.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, then
other people over here
have something to
do with that name.
I'm very, very aware of that.
I'm very, very aware, also,
when you were a younger girl,
I want to go to a
memory of driving
in a station wagon
with the family.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, oh yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
Because when Dad
comes through, he's
giving me this memory
of a station wagon.
Now I know that.
I'm very aware of that.
I'm very, very aware--
go on, go on, slow down.
Right.
I'm going to stop.
It's a two-toned car.
And I'm trying to get what
kind of car it is here.
I know we have the
rack on the top.
On the back of the hood,
there's that rack for luggage.
I'm just trying to get it.
It begins with an R. I'm
trying to get the car.
Because you kids are
fighting in the back.
Now be quiet, the three of you.
Be quiet, the three of you.
Be quiet back there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
The three of you be quiet.
And who ended up
being a policeman
or working for the law.
>>AUDIENCE: No one
that I know of.
Oh, uncle, my uncle.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He was
a policeman, was he?
>>AUDIENCE: He was a sheriff.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Sheriff.
So I know-- waving
here from that.
But I get that feeling of
police or sheriff here.
And he's also talking
to me about when
the family used to get together.
I know there would have
been-- the family would've
gotten together, and it would've
been in the summer times.
And I know that this
man, the sheriff,
know it's his family
would've been there as well.
So I know there would've been
like a family get-together.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Because I know that
car is going somewhere.
Where is that
station wagon going?
And then that guy
comes in, he goes,
we're having a
family get-together.
And it was like barbecues
and things like this.
>>AUDIENCE: Many times.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Many times.
And those are the
memories that I
know that love-- that
this loving energy brings.
Spirit comes back in memories.
You see?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And they're
talking about that.
And-- I'm obsessed
with that car.
Let it go, James.
But I also feel I want
to talk about the floaty
that you were in.
The floaty?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Remember
that floaty that you had.
You said, Mommy, I
want that floaty.
And she's giving me this--
the whole thing about you
wanted to buy the floaty at like
five-and-ten, a nickel and dime
store.
>>AUDIENCE: No doubt.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
there'd be old photographs
of these get-togethers.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that you
would have been either talking
about them recently or talking
to a sibling about them or
looking at them recently.
Does that make sense
to you, please?
>>AUDIENCE: There's
lots of pictures.
And they are on Facebook.
And my sister just--
what do you call
it-- shared a whole
bunch of them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Did she share one
when you were kids?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
And she would've shared one
also if it was either the family
get-together or the lake
or something like that.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, we had
a cottage at the lake.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Cottage at the lake.
There you go.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
And the station wagon would
haul all the stuff to the lake.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
And I know the
barbecues-- the guys--
the men would
barbecue the franks
and the beans and
the hamburgers.
That sort of a thing.
>>AUDIENCE: They
would do the cooking.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: One more thing.
Go on.
Your dad is showing me
a flag, a military flag.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know
he's in the military
because he's shows me a flag.
And he's very much that way.
He's very honorable this
man when he comes in here.
And he said, ah, the
hell with the insurance.
I don't know what that means.
Ah, the hell with the insurance.
The insurance didn't
pay something,
or the insurance might not
have paid for your mom or him.
But he said, the hell
with that insurance.
That's what he said to me.
Because he's all about the
insurance, or something being
paid by insurance,
and it never did.
>>AUDIENCE: It
would be like him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, that's
what he's talking about.
And I know I collect the
newspapers for a long time.
Stack up the newspapers.
He used to collect
things like this.
He was kind of a junker
or a collector of things.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that he would-- 1943--
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --is significant.
1943.
So I don't know what that means.
>>AUDIENCE: Can I say?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, tell me.
>>AUDIENCE: He was a
lieutenant commander
in the Navy in
the South Pacific.
And he was at Guadalcanal.
And pretty much--
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that was 1943.
>>AUDIENCE: There you go.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
Because I know that.
I know that he saved
that newspaper.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that when
you went through his things,
you would've found that out.
>>AUDIENCE: We did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
you've seen those pictures
on the front cover.
And Pearl Harbor was a big deal.
And your dad lost a
lot of friends there.
And he was very aware
of that sort of thing.
When you were a
little girl, there's
a house you lived next to
near a white picket fence.
Would you have any
memory of that?
>>AUDIENCE: It was
my grandmother's.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That was
your grandma's, great.
And didn't you used to go over
there all the time, visit.
>>AUDIENCE: She just
lived a block away.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
>>AUDIENCE: Around the corner.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she
loved the rose gardens.
She loved the rose gardens.
You know?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now
she's coming in,
obviously, because I
don't walk like this.
[LAUGHTER]
She's coming in.
And she has-- she shows
me like these things
that you walk under, arbor.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A rose arbor.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
Because she goes,
look at my arbor.
And she stands there, and
the roses are over the arbor.
And she's very proud.
She's very proud at how
pretty she makes things look.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She said
it's done from love.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
it's done from love.
And she makes her own
outfits or own clothes.
She's a very
self-sufficient lady.
She said, don't you
come here until you--
you're going to
help with something.
Don't just sit around.
You're going to help.
Now I know that she
used to make lemonade
when you used to come over.
She used to make some lemonade.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And do you
remember her with a hose.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, she'd
be out in the garden.
>>VAN PRAAGH: With a hose.
But I know I want to
clean that sidewalk, too.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I want
you kids help me we weed.
So she gets you on hands
and knees to weed something.
Weeding something.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that her husband is like,
oh my god, here we go again.
And she's, like, demanding.
I want to talk about a meatloaf.
A meatloaf.
>>AUDIENCE: Ah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I'm
making the meatloaf.
So I don't know if that was her
recipe or your mother's recipe.
But there's something
about a meatloaf.
>>AUDIENCE: It was one of the
few things my mother actually
could make well.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Isn't that strange?
That's so funny.
Thats so, so funny.
And I know that your sister
has your mother's papers.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
she has everything.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, she said my
other daughter has my papers.
So she would have papers.
She would have some
of her school papers
from when she went to school
even, a long time ago.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
very interesting--
was there anyone near--
connected to Niagara
Falls or upstate New York
or in that area, please?
That's where I want to go.
>>AUDIENCE: That's
where I grew up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
where you grew up.
Thank you very much.
>>AUDIENCE: That's
where we all were.
>>VAN PRAAGH: They're
taking my mind,
they're bringing it right to the
Niagara Falls and upstate New
York area.
>>AUDIENCE: That's
the homestead.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's it.
And that's where I want to go.
And that's where all
these memories are made
and love is created.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, indeed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I
love that very much.
And they're still very
much a part of your life.
And your mother's thanking
you for helping her
with the medical decisions.
And helping-- and your
other sister, too.
She bullied her way in a
little bit, your other sister.
But you did what you
could emotionally
to help your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm going
to tell you that-- what?
Tell them what?
Tell them.
OK.
So she said, I have
to tell you all that,
she said, I was
following my soul.
Her soul had to go through an
experience at the very end.
And I don't know
if this lady used
to be very religious
when she was younger.
But I know that I just want
to feel religious in someway.
I'm not sure if I'm
Catholic or what I am.
>>AUDIENCE: Her dad was
a Presbyterian minister.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, a
Presbyterian minister.
>>AUDIENCE: So she
grew up in a very--
>>VAN PRAAGH: She would've
read the Bible or something
like that.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
she said even the Bible
would have failed me
because it goes beyond that.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
know that there's
a picture of Jesus Christ.
I know that there's
a big picture
of the sacred heart of Jesus.
I know that.
Do you understand that?
Do you remember that?
So she had that.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I want that to be passed on
to family members, she said.
>>AUDIENCE: I hope
I can find it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
sister has it.
>>AUDIENCE: Ah,
that makes sense.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, go on.
Yeah.
Anna.
Someone named Anne?
>>AUDIENCE: It's
her middle name.
It's my sister's and my
mother's middle name.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, your
sister, Anne, has it.
[LAUGHTER]
That's it.
Sister Anne has
the sacred heart.
And one more thing.
Go on, go on.
I'm happy here.
>>AUDIENCE: Good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There was a
baby that was lost as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She has the baby.
She said to tell you that.
She has the baby.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The baby's
over here as well.
Got the baby.
>>AUDIENCE: Aw.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
really happy about that.
I know your father's picture
is in that manila envelope.
You take out the
manila envelope,
and there's his
military uniform.
Him in the military picture.
It's a colored picture.
And it's in a manila envelope.
And you open it up
and put it back in.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he's
very much a man of respect.
You know?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he
lets things happen.
Did he once buy you a rabbit?
>>AUDIENCE: We had
all kinds of animals,
including rabbit hutch.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I know at Easter time,
some people give rabbits,
but they gave you
a live rabbit or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And there was
a joke about the rabbits
and how fast they reproduce.
I know your daddy wants
to mention something
about the rabbits
at Easter time.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, and that's it.
And the Good Shepherd.
That's very interesting.
So see if there was a church
that your mother would have
known or your family would have
known named the Good Shepherd
Church when you
were a young girl.
Because I know it was
right around the house.
I know we'd have
to walk to church.
I don't feel we have to
take a car necessarily,
but on a walk to church.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
most of the churches
were within walking distance.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I see it.
And I see the Good Shepherd.
And I just wanted to tell
you-- so find it out--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, I
know what it is.
The church I grew up in,
which was around the corner,
there was a huge
picture of Jesus
as the shepherd with the lambs.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Maybe that's
called the Good Shepherd.
>>AUDIENCE: I think so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Check it out.
I guarantee it is.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
You're very welcome.
I leave you with their love.
God bless.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to
thank you all very much.
Thank you, everybody,
for being here.
Thank you, also, at home.
And I want to
thank Glynis, also,
for the numbers work that
she did, lady by the numbers
and "Love by the
Numbers" and Numbers Lady
and everything that she is.
She's incredible.
[LAUGHTER]
I love her.
And thank you, everyone.
Until next time, bye-bye.
[APPLAUSE]
[CLOCK TICKING]